## Fast Computation of Branching Process Transition Probabilities via ADMM

We revisit the computational challenge of computing transition probabilities of large-scale multitype branching processes, for which efficient numerical techniques have only recently been developed. The generating functions are obtained as solutions to differential equation systems, and the transition probability can be recovered from fast numerical series inversion techniques, enabling maximum likelihood inference and Expectation-Maximization (EM) algorithms. Our approach operates on a vectorized version of the problem, avoiding large matrix inversions that prevent the previous PGD approach from applying to larger-scale settings. Moreover, our method admits easily parallelizable implementations, and it is surprisingly inelastic to tuning parameters. Through a suite of experiments, we validate the robustness of ADMM with respect to the stepsize $\beta$ and the regularization parameter $\lambda$, as well as its superior performance over previous attempts using PGD. We also show through thoughtful algorithmic considerations that the primal variable update in ADMM can be carried out without matrix inversions. The robustness, efficiency, and accuracy of the proposed method make it well suited for opening the door to likelihood-based inference in previously intractable settings.

#### This repository contains the data and code used in the paper "Fast Computation of Branching Process Transition Probabilities via ADMM" by A. Awasthi and J. Xu available on ArXiv. 
